in this video I want to walk you quickly
through how to just audit your campaign
settings to make sure everything is set
up properly and there are no mishaps
here now this step may or may not be
very applicable to most of you watching
this if you set up all your campaigns
from scratch you know they're solid and
you don't have multiple people working
in your Google ad account then you might
not need to do this but if you are
working in a big account with multiple
people then this is worth doing
especially if you're taking over a new
account from the first time you're going
to want to make sure you audit the
campaign setting of those campaigns in
that account so what you're going to do
is just going to go into the Google ads
editor and you're going to open up the
settings feature here for each campaign
now I understand if you have a lot of
campaigns this can be quite tedious but
it is worth doing um one thing you could
do is you could also look at these
settings in aggregate in the Google ads
editor but I personally just prefer
doing it in the UI so what I do is I
open up the settings here and then I
just go through each setting one by one
and just make sure everything looks good
so number one campaign name do we have a
campaign naming convention in place that
actually is reflective of what the
information we want to see and easily
report on next is conversion goals do we
have conversion goals applied to this
campaign in this case we have uh
account-wide conversion goals that we're
taking to consideration that may or may
not be a bad thing depending on if all
of the conversions that you have in your
account are worth being associated to
this campaign but if you only wanted
specific conversions to be Associated to
this campaign then that could be a red
flag and you know okay wait a second
I've got to go in here and uh switch
this to campaign specific and then
choose the campaign goals that you want
to be Associated moving on is customer
acquisition this one uh I don't have a
lot of data to to give you suggested
feedback here on if clicking this button
actually impacts performance vers not uh
really kind of up to you on on what you
want to do and if you want to test that
but we haven't we haven't seen any
consistencies on a putting this button
is a game changer or not so so we
typically just leave it off for the time
being and then um you know if if we
think it's worthwhile we'll turn it on
but to be honest we don't have a lot of
insight here moving on is marketing
objective uh do you have the right
marketing objective selected this is
really just a factor of allowing you to
see all the different campaign settings
available we typically go with no go
guidance so we can see all of the
available options and then be able to
customize our campaigns to the fullest
next is your networks do you have the
right networks Associated to your Campa
campign so for us we're talking about
Google ads specifically search ads we
don't want to have display and Google
search together that's a huge no no
that's just going to inflate your total
Impressions reduce your your
click-through rate which is going to
hurt your quality score so instead what
we do is we focus on search Network and
the search Partners if we're finding
good performance by the search Partners
if we're not then we will probably opt
out of it but we like to stay with it in
the beginning moving on is your
locations do you have the right
locations set and more importantly do
you have the right location options
selected so it's often that people will
select presence or interest by mistake
and really what they want is presence so
you want to people reach people who are
actually physically located in the
Target location not people who are
interested in the Target location so for
example I could be in Russia and I could
be searching you know hotels in Miami
and then I could be seeing local
listings and ads from Miami in Russia
just if I were to select this option
versus I only want to Reach people in
Miami then you're going to want to make
sure you target uh presence as a
location option moving on is languages
you want to make sure you have one
language per campaign with relevant
keywords and ads and landing pages in
that language so in this case it's all
in English next is your bidding do you
have the right bid strategy Associated
to your campaign so bidding and bidding
strategies this is always circumstantial
depending on your goals and your
objective but generally speaking we like
to focus on using manual bidding or
maximize Clicks in the beginning of a
new camp campaign let it ACR 15
conversions a month and then we'll shift
over to doing some sort of conversion
based bit strategy like Target CPA or
maximize conversions and we'll run it as
a campaign experiment to just see how it
performs against the the manual bidding
so you know user discretion here
whatever makes sense for you but make
sure you have the right bid strategy
Associated uh moving on is your campaign
URL options do you have a tracking
template applied to your campaign
so you can see in this casee we don't
have a campaign Ural tracking template
so then from here I'm going to want to
dig deeper and I want to make sure okay
do we have UTM applied at least at the
ad level directly in the links and then
this is an opportunity if we don't have
campaign tracking templates to apply
them because campaign tracking templates
are far superior because it's going to
allow us to pass all these Dynamic
information like the keyword that drove
the click the device that click was
originated on and so on and so forth so
making sure you have tracking templates
somewhere in your campaign structure if
not at the campaign level then at least
at the ad level but I personally prefer
doing at the campaign level cuz you just
do it once in one place and then all
your ads inherit the settings and that's
really it you're just going to do this
process for each of your campaigns super
tedious but worthwhile uh there is a
great thing about doing this once and
doing it right so you don't have to
worry about it and then from here if you
are working with multiple people you can
just keep your eye on the change history
log to see if there's any new notable
updates that come through